---
title: "From Shapes to Amortized Complexity"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2018-01-ranger
excerpt: 'This paper is our work automatic complexity analysis of programs manipulating with
dynamic data structures.'
date: 2018-10-01
venue: 'VMCAI'
paperurl: 'http://tfiedor.github.io/files/2018-01-ranger.pdf'
citation: "FIEDOR Tomáš, HOLÍK Lukáš, ROGALEWICZ Adam, SINN Moritz, VOJNAR Tomáš and ZULEGER Florian. From Shapes to Amortized Complexity. In: Proceedings of VMCAI'18. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 10145. Heidelberg: Springer Verlag, 2018, pp. 205-225. ISBN 978-3-319-73720-1. ISSN 0302-9743."
---

We propose a new method for the automated resource bound analysis of programs manipulating dynamic
data structures built on top of an underlying shape and resource bound analysis. Our approach first
constructs an integer abstraction for the input program using information gathered by a shape
analyser; then a resource bound analyzer is run on the resulting integer program. The integer
abstraction is based on shape norms-numerical measures on dynamic data structures (e.g., the length
of a linked list). In comparison to related approaches, we consider a larger class of shape norms
which we derive by a lightweight program analysis. The analysis identifies paths through the
involved dynamic data structures, and filters the norms which are unlikely to be useful for the
later bound analysis. We present a calculus for deriving the numeric changes of the shape norms,
thereby generating the integer program. Our calculus encapsulates the minimal information which is
required from the shape analysis. We have implemented our approach on top of the Forester shape
analyser and evaluated it on a number of programs manipulating various list and tree structures
using the Loopus tool as the underlying bounds analyser. We report on programs with complex data
structures and/or using complex algorithms that could not be analysed in a fully automated and
precise way before.

[Download paper here](http://tfiedor.github.io/files/2018-01-ranger.pdf)
Recommended citation: FIEDOR Tomáš, HOLÍK Lukáš, ROGALEWICZ Adam, SINN Moritz, VOJNAR Tomáš and ZULEGER Florian. From Shapes to Amortized Complexity. In: Proceedings of VMCAI'18. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 10145. Heidelberg: Springer Verlag, 2018, pp. 205-225. ISBN 978-3-319-73720-1. ISSN 0302-9743.
