---
title: "Reasoning about Regular Properties: A Comparative Study"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2023-01-cade
excerpt: 'This paper is a comparative study of several different approaches to reasoning about
regular properties.'
date: 2023-10-01
venue: 'CADE'
paperurl: 'http://tfiedor.github.io/files/2023-01-cade.pdf'
citation: "FIEDOR Tomáš, HOLÍK Lukáš, HRUŠKA Martin, ROGALEWICZ Adam, SÍČ Juraj and VARGOVČÍK Pavol. Reasoning about Regular Properties: A Comparative Study. In: Automated Deduction - CADE 29. Cham: Springer Nature Switzerland AG, 2023, pp. 286-306. ISSN 0302-9743."
---

Several new algorithms for deciding emptiness of Boolean combinations of regular languages and of
languages of alternating automata have been proposed recently, especially in the context of
analysing regular expressions and in string constraint solving. The new algorithms demonstrated a
significant potential, but they have never been systematically compared, neither among each other
nor with the state-of-the art implementations of existing (non)deterministic automata-based
methods. In this paper, we provide such comparison as well as an overview of the existing
algorithms and their implementations. We collect a diverse benchmark mostly originating in or
related to practical problems from string constraint solving, analysing LTL properties, and regular
model checking, and evaluate collected implementations on it. The results reveal the best tools and
hint on what the best algorithms and implementation techniques are. Roughly, although some advanced
algorithms are fast, such as antichain algorithms and reductions to IC3/PDR, they are not as
overwhelmingly dominant as sometimes presented and there is no clear winner. The simplest NFA-based
technology may sometimes be a better choice, depending on the problem source and the implementation
style. We believe that our findings are relevant for development of automata techniques as well as
for related fields such as string constraint solving.

[Download paper here](http://tfiedor.github.io/files/2023-01-cade.pdf)
Recommended citation: FIEDOR Tomáš, HOLÍK Lukáš, HRUŠKA Martin, ROGALEWICZ Adam, SÍČ Juraj and VARGOVČÍK Pavol. Reasoning about Regular Properties: A Comparative Study. In: Automated Deduction - CADE 29. Cham: Springer Nature Switzerland AG, 2023, pp. 286-306. ISSN 0302-9743.
